README.md, before:

# fibonacci
** Web Service to return numbers in order in the Fibonacci sequence **

## Summary
This is a service that will work as a RestAPI to deliver the Fibonacci numbers to the requested depth.  
It uses a reds server to store the numbers and a local file to cache what is needed.  You are able to scale the
redis and web servers as you need to deliver to your requirements. The redis servers are in a cluster that is monitored by sentinel.  If a redis server goes down a a new one will be started and added to the cluster.   

Redis cluster provided by:
https://github.com/mustafaileri/redis-cluster-with-sentinel



These are the parts of the service

* Redis Cluster: with sentinel monitoring and management
* Redis populator service: to fill the redis array
* Updater service: to keep he local cache up-to-date as needed
* Web Service: Rest API to receive and respond to requests.


## Installation

Build and start services
From inside the repo run
```
docker build docker -f docker/Dockerfile.redispop --rm -t redispop/devel
```
```
docker build docker -f docker/Dockerfile.websrvr --rm -t websrvr/devel
```
```
docker build docker -f docker/Dockerfile.python --rm -t python/devel
```
```
cd docker
```
```
docker-compose up --build
```
Leave that running and in a new tab verify the servers are up.
Again from inside the docker directory run
```
docker-compose ps
```
You should see
```
Name                     command                State     Ports
--------------------------------------------------------------------
docker_master_1     docker-entrypoint.sh redis ...   Up      6379/tcp
```
```
Name                     Command               State    Ports  
---------------------------------------------------------------------
docker_master_1     docker-entrypoint.sh redis ...   Up      6379/tcp
docker_python_1     /bin/bash                        Up              
docker_redispop_1   /bin/bash                        Up              
docker_sentinel_1   entrypoint.sh                    Up      6379/tcp
docker_slave_1      docker-entrypoint.sh redis ...   Up      6379/tcp
docker_websrvr_1    ./run.sh                         Up  
```
This is the minimum number of servers needed to work, we will add servers later.
List the running images
```
docker container ls
```
Attach to the "python" server to access RestAPI
Use the container ID for the image named docker_python_1
```
docker exec -it <container id> /bin/bash
```
Verify the web service is running.
The first command will give results via the cache file
The second will connect to redis, update the cache file, and then return results.
```
curl http://websrvr:8000/?fib=10
curl http://websrvr:8000/?fib=20
```

Commit message:

Cleaning up markup mistakes Increased initial redis array length

README.md, after:

# fibonacci
** Web Service to return numbers in order in the Fibonacci sequence **

## Summary
This is a service that will work as a RestAPI to deliver the Fibonacci numbers to the requested depth.  
It uses a reds server to store the numbers and a local file to cache what is needed.  You are able to scale the
redis and web servers as you need to deliver to your requirements. The redis servers are in a cluster that is monitored by sentinel.  If a redis server goes down a a new one will be started and added to the cluster.

Redis cluster provided by:
https://github.com/mustafaileri/redis-cluster-with-sentinel

## Design
The web service uses a local cache file to serve the sequence of numbers.  A small initial file is created.  At the same time another server is doing calculations to populate the redis array with a much larger series of numbers.  When a call is made to the web service it looks to see if if the value needed is in the local cache, if it is not it looks to see if redis has the requests value.  If redis has the value the local cache is updated and the response is sent back with the request. 

These are the parts of the service

* Redis Cluster: with sentinel monitoring and management
* Redis populator service: to fill the redis array
* Updater service: to keep he local cache up-to-date as needed
* Web Service: Rest API to receive and respond to requests.


## Installation

Build and start services
From inside the repo run
```
docker build docker -f docker/Dockerfile.redispop --rm -t redispop/devel
```
```
docker build docker -f docker/Dockerfile.websrvr --rm -t websrvr/devel
```
```
docker build docker -f docker/Dockerfile.python --rm -t python/devel
```
```
cd docker
```
```
docker-compose up --build
```
Leave that running and in a new tab verify the servers are up.
Again from inside the docker directory run
```
docker-compose ps
```
You should see
```
Name                     Command               State    Ports  
---------------------------------------------------------------------
docker_master_1     docker-entrypoint.sh redis ...   Up      6379/tcp
docker_python_1     /bin/bash                        Up              
docker_redispop_1   /bin/bash                        Up              
docker_sentinel_1   entrypoint.sh                    Up      6379/tcp
docker_slave_1      docker-entrypoint.sh redis ...   Up      6379/tcp
docker_websrvr_1    ./run.sh                         Up  
```
This is the minimum number of servers needed to work, we will add servers later.
List the running images
```
docker container ls
```
Attach to the "python" server to access RestAPI
Use the container ID for the image named docker_python_1
```
docker exec -it <container id> /bin/bash
```
Verify the web service is running.
The first command will give results via the cache file
The second will connect to redis, update the cache file, and then return results.
```
curl http://websrvr:8000/?fib=10
curl http://websrvr:8000/?fib=20
```
